- [Instructor] It helps to understand the history
behind GitOps and the direction where it's heading.
The software development community is always searching
for ways to deliver faster.
Nobody likes waiting, so it's pretty easy
to convince management to support an idea
that shortens the cycle.
The desire to move faster has driven several waves
of evolution through our community in different spaces.
We've adopted more integrated development processes,
leaving traditional waterfall methods behind
for better ways of working, like Agile and DevOps,
that will make teams more productive.
We've also broken systems down into fine-grain services
so they're easier to change and deploy.
Apps have shifted from running on VMs
to being packaged and deployed within immutable containers
that scale quickly on orchestration platforms.
At the same time, we began shifting our infrastructure
to the cloud, where platforms like Azure GCP and AWS
have reduced provisioning times down from weeks to seconds.
Teams that progress through these stages
often hit their goals for delivering faster,
but there's unintended side effects.
For example, systems will often become unstable
if the operations side can't keep up
with the increased rate change.
That's where GitOps enters the picture.
It focuses primarily on the operations, or Ops side.
Using GitOps, teams manage operations
through declarative infrastructure code stored in Git.
Changes to the code are released through a delivery pipeline
controlled by an automated agent
that applies the changes to the system.
This workflow for continuous delivery allows teams
to rapidly, yet safely, deliver changes
without sacrificing system stability.
The idea of storing all aspects of your system in Git
and using the repository to drive automation
has been around for years.
However, it wasn't until 2017 that Weaveworks CEO,
Alexis Richardson, first introduced the term GitOps
in a blog post titled Operations by Poll Request.
Currently, a working group
within the Cloud Native Computing Foundation
is building a GitOps manifesto
that standardizes GitOps principles.
The group recently formed and has participation
from notable names in tech like Weaveworks,
Codefresh, and Microsoft.
So the GitOps principles have solidified,
but the practices and tolling will constantly be evolving.
Everyone agrees the GitOps pattern will heavily influence
how we'll work and how tolls will be built in the future,
but everybody has a slightly different idea
of how that's going to be implemented.
So it's an exciting time to be involved with GitOps.
The future is promising, which is why it's important
to grasp the concepts in the early stages.